Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about the increment and decrement operator in C.
So First let us discuss
about the increment operator ++ and the operation performed
is that the value will be incremented by one
so let us see
An example
We have a simple code here
First we're declaring an integer variable var and initialising
it to 5
Now we are printing the value of var so it
will print five
Now we have var++ which will increment the value
of var and it will become six
And now we are printing the value of var again
This time it prints the incremented value six
So that was increment Operator
And now let us discuss about the decrement operator
So it works just the opposite of increment
It will decrement the value by one
And the decrement operator  is --
Now let us see example c code to understand the
decrement operation
First we're declaring integer variable var and we are
initialising it to five
Now we are printing the value of var so it
will print five
Now we have var--
Which will decrement  value of var and it
will become 4 and now we are printing the value
of var again
This time it prints the decremented value 4
now we can use this increment/decrement operators
in two ways as var++ and ++var
first let us see the post increment operation here the
value is returned first and then only incremented
See this expression To understand this. we have
b=a++ Here First the value of a
will be returned and then only a is incremented
So see an example Let a equal to 10 initially and
we have b=a++
So the value of a that is 10 will be
returned and stored in be first and then a is incremented
and it will become 11.
Now let us see the pre increment operation here The
order of operation is just the opposite
First value will be incremented and then only it is returned
So see this expression here b=++a
so first this increment operation will take place and
then only value is returned
So see an example let a=10 and we have
b=++a so firstly a will
be incremented and it will become 11
And now it is assigned to b. so that is
the difference between post-increment and pre-increment operators
And the decrement operator can also be used in these
two ways as a-- and --a
So that's all and thank you for watching this video